-----HELEN-----

Bio:
Helen Berman is a Board of Governors Distinguished Professor Emerita of Chemistry and Chemical Biology at Rutgers University. Currently, she Is a Research Professor at the University of Southern California. Her research has focused on the structural biology of nucleic acids, protein-nucleic acid interactions, and collagen.  She helped co found the Protein Data Bank (PDB) in 1971 and was the Director of the RCSB PDB from 1998-2014. She has been active in developing and maintaining other community resources including the Nucleic Acid Database and the Electron Microscopy Data Resource. In addition to her research and the creation of data resources, she is working on ways to use the digital arts to communicate about the importance of structural biology in medicine and health. Helen received her A.B. in Chemistry from Barnard College and her Ph.D. in crystallography at University of Pittsburgh.

Talk Title:
Community Data Resources for Structural Biology

-----ANDY-----

TBD

-----CHRIS-----
Name, Affiliation:
Chris Mattmann, International Expert in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Author of Machine Learning with TensorFlow 2nd edition

Bio:
Chief Technology and Innovation Officer, his work has helped the world explore space, and helped journalists and governments track international financial crime amongst the world’s elite across the globe.

He is best known for a 20-year career inventing the most downloaded software on the planet creating technology that powers all the data systems in the industry. Tika, the “digital babel fish” is the key technology that solved the Panama Papers and won the Pulitzer Prize in journalism in 2017.

Talk Title:
AI and Machine Learning from Back of the Napkin Sketch to Rovers on Mars

Chris Mattmann will explain how JPL’s Chief Technology and Innovation Office explores and researches AI, Analytics, and Innovation in the Information Technology and Solutions Directorate (ITSD) at NASA JPL. The team has a long history of working and supporting efforts not just for NASA but also with DARPA‘s information innovation office, including areas of explainable AI, advanced analytics, Machine Learning for Smarter Rovers, a Smarter JPL Campus, and beyond! The talk will explain how each of these research areas contributes to innovation and JPL‘s, overall mission to explore the universe.
